Refactor getting started guide to use the sample spring-petclinic (#1085)
redhat-developer/service-binding-operator: docs/userguide/modules/getting-started/partials/connect-petclinic-pgcluster.adoc

== Connect the application to the database

Suppose the {servicebinding-title} is not present. In that case, the
application\'s admin needs to extract all the configuration details and
create a Secret resource and expose it to the application through volume

> mount in Kubernetes. The steps would be something like this:

Author: thx

> . Identify the required values for connecting the application to the
> database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Identify the required values for connecting the application to the
database.
```
Period at the end of a complete sentence.

Author: Thx

> . Locate the resources where the values are present

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the resources where the values are present.
```

Author: Thx

> . Take the values from different resources and create a Secret resource

Author: Thx

> . Mount the Secret resource into the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Mount the Secret resource into the application.
```

Author: Thx

> . Depending on the application requirement the values should be exposed
> as env var or file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Depending on the application requirements, expose the values as environment variables or files.
```

Author: Thx

== Connect the application to the database

Suppose the {servicebinding-title} is not present. In that case, the
application\'s admin needs to extract all the configuration details and
create a Secret resource and expose it to the application through volume
mount in Kubernetes. The steps would be something like this:

. Identify the required values for connecting the application to the
database
. Locate the resources where the values are present
. Take the values from different resources and create a Secret resource
. Mount the Secret resource into the application
. Depending on the application requirement the values should be exposed
as env var or file.

In this quick start, we are going to leverage {servicebinding-title} as a way
to easily and safely connect the application to the database service. In
order to do that, we\'ll need to create a `ServiceBinding` resource which

> will trigger the {servicebinding-title} to project the binding data

Author: thx

into the application.

> === Create the `ServiceBinding` resource to project the binding data:

Author: thx

The `.spec` has two sections. The first is a list of service
resources (`.spec.services`), and the second one is the application
(`.spec.application`). The services resources points to the database\'s
service resources. How the values are exposed from service resources are

> explained xref:exposing-binding-data:intro-expose-binding.adoc[Exposing Binding Data]

Author: thx

section. The application points to a `Deployment`
or any resource that is PodSpec compatible.

+++ <details><summary> +++
`ServiceBinding` resource to project the binding data 

> +++ </summary><div> +++

Reviewer 2: I think you can use here asciidoc caption block instead:

```
.`ServiceBinding` resource to project the binding data 
[source,yaml]
```

If yes, please replace this across all appearances.

Author: I'm using this approach to have the source code of the actual YAML hidden/collapsed in the rendered page and only to be shown when user is interested in seeing it by clicking on the title. I like that approach much better then simply including the whole YAMLs to appear in the document out-of-the-box making the document large.

IMHO, it makes it easier for a reader to read the document.

Reviewer 2: ok

[source,yaml]
----
include::attachment$petclinic-pgcluster-binding.yaml[tag=service-binding]
----
+++ </div></details> +++

For simplicity, you can run the following command in shell to create the

> resource:

Author: Thx

[source,bash,subs="attributes,macros"]
----
kubectl apply -f link:{attachmentsdir}/petclinic-pgcluster-binding.yaml[pass:a[{site-url}/{page-component-name}/{page-module}/{attachmentsdir}/petclinic-pgcluster-binding.yaml]] -n {quickstart-namespace}
----

To check if the binding was successful you can check the binding

> resource status conditions by running the following command:

Author: this is only to verify that the binding was successful... not to be done "for a successful binding".

[source,bash,subs="attributes,macros"]
----
kubectl get servicebindings -n {quickstart-namespace}
----

> You should see the output similar to the following:

Author: thx

[source]
----
NAME                          READY   REASON              AGE
spring-petclinic-pgcluster   True    ApplicationsBound   28s
----

To learn more about creating service bindings, you can find more
information on the following xref:creating-service-bindings:creating-service-binding.adoc[document]

By creating this `ServiceBinding` resource, we now have values from the
database\'s binding data projected into the application container as
files (that\'s the default behavior, but you can also project environment

> variables if you prefer). If you check under

Author: thx

`/bindings/spring-petclinic-pgcluster` directory you\'ll see all the values

> from the secret resource projected there. In the above example, you\'ll

Author: thx

> find `username` and `password`. And the values pointed out through the

Author: thx

annotation are also projected which includes `database`, `host`, and

> `port`. Finally `type` is also projected which is required for

Author: thx

> connectity.. The application looks for `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` env var to

Author: thx

> find the location of `/bindings` directory. The Spring Boot application

Author: thx

used here is built using
https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-bindings[Spring Cloud
Bindings] and it looks for `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` to get the projected

> binding data. See the using projected binding data section about how the

Author: thx

values can be used from the application.

> To verify that binding was successful let\'s setup the port forwarding from the application port so we

Author: thx

> can access it from our local environment:

Author: thx

[source,bash,subs="attributes"]
----
kubectl port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 svc/spring-petclinic 8080:80 -n {quickstart-namespace}
----

> You should be able to open http://localhost:8080 and access the application\'s web UI and use it normally.

Author: thx
